---
layout: post
title: "(Animal) Crossing Socks and APIs"
subtitle: "By Thomas Benissan"
cover-img: /assets/img/All_socks.png
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/All_socks.png
share-img: /assets/img/All_socks.png
tags: [Data-Collection]
---

### 1. Discuss how you used the API to obtain the dataset.
I used python's requests library to "ask" the server for the information I desired. I made a function that would get the information for a sock at a given index. This function had a premade parameter with my API key and the query, which is the index parameter of the function.

### 2. Which sock has the most variations? If there is more than one answer, then list all of them.
Socks with the most variations (8): argyle crew socks, color-blocked socks, frilly knee-high socks, holey tights, kiddie socks, mixed-tweed socks, no-show socks, semi-opaque socks, semi-opaque tights, sequin leggings, simple-accent socks, striped socks, striped tights, tube socks, ultra no-show socks, vivid leggings, vivid socks, vivid tights

### 3. How many socks of each color are there?
If a sock has two different colors, it should be counted in both. However, if a sock has the same Color1 and Color2, make sure you don’t double count it!
Aqua: 33, Pink: 44, Orange: 28, Purple: 39, Green: 51, Blue: 48, Yellow: 34, White: 89, Black: 65, Red: 43, Beige: 16, Gray: 33, Brown: 11, Colorful: 14

### 4. Discuss your process of how you worked on this lab.
Include details such as who you worked with, what methods you tried, what worked or didn’t work, what could have gone better, and what you learned during this lab. Focus more on the programming side of the lab! Feel free to attach images, screenshots, pseudocode, etc to elaborate on your response.

Since the request to the api consists of only an IDX for a sock I made a function that I could call to get a socks data at a certain IDX which is provided as a parameter to that function.

I decided to create a local dictionary of the sock data so that I would only have to make 1 api call for each sock and then I could access the sock's data locally. To create the dictionary I used a while loop that would only break when the idx provided to the get sock data was out of the range of the sock dataset. This ensures that I'm putting every sock in the dictionary because the idx I'm requesting from the starts at 0 and increases until it is out of the range of the dataset.

For each request, I added the response data to my dictionary, making the index the key. I only added the name and colors as my values because those were the only 3 sets of data I needed. I originally attempted to make the name the key, however, I ran into the issue that there are multiple different socks with the same name. Since keys must be unique every time I added a new sock with the same name as a sock already in the dictionary, instead of adding a new sock I would just replace the values for the sock that was originally in the dictionary.

I then returned the dictionary so I could use it later.

To find the max number of variations I created a dictionary that would map a sock name to the number of times it appeared in the dataset, which is effectively its number of variations. Then I could go through the dictionary and return all the socks which have a value equivalent to the max variation value. I first looped through my local sock data dictionary, checking if the sock name was in my variations dictionary. If it is I would add one to the value, the variations count, and if it wasn't in my dictionary that means it's a new sock variation so I would initialize a new object in my dictionary with key = sock name and value (variation count) of 1. Once the variations dictionary was fully created I found the max variation count with the max function, its parameter being the list of values from the variations dictionary. I then used a for loop to return a list of names only if the value attached to that name (the number of variations) is equal to the max variation count.

To find the number of socks per color without double counting I looped through each sock in the data set and then I looped through the set of the colors of that sock. By making it a set I am
